---
title: "Description"
section: ""
source: "https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/operations.html#id57"
---

#### [Description](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections#id57)[](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/#id57 "Permalink to this headline")

The `reduce` operation applies a custom reduction function along a specified dimension of
one or more input tiles, producing the same number of output tiles.

The reduction function must be an associative operation defined within the `reduce`
operation’s region. A single reduction operation can reduce over any number of input tiles in
parallel, producing a reduced output tile for each.

> **Note**
>
> Only pure operations are allowed in the body of `reduce`.

All input tiles must have the same shape. The output tiles will have a matching shape in every
dimension except the one being reduced, which is removed.

For each input tile, a constant identity value must be provided that matches the element type of
the input tile. Identity `i` of `identities` corresponds to input tile
`i` of `operands`. The correct identity value is a property of the reduction
function in the `body`. (For example, if the reduction function performs `min`,
the identity is `+inf`, while if the reduction function performs a `sum`,
the identity is `0`.)

The reduction function must expect `2N` arguments, where `N` is the number of input tiles.
Each pair of reduction arguments `2i` and `2i+1` will correspond to the `i`-th input tile.
The first argument of each pair is an element of the input tile; the second is the accumulator from all
prior reductions along the specified dimension. This second value might be input element, the identity value,
or the result of a previous reduction iteration. The reduction function should yield the new accumulator value
for each input tile.

> **Note**
>
> There are no guarantees on the order of element reduction along the specified dimension.
> However, the result is deterministic across different runs of the same kernel on the same device.
