---
title: "Description"
section: ""
source: "https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/operations.html#id127"
---

#### [Description](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections#id127)[](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/#id127 "Permalink to this headline")

The `for` operation is a structured range-based sequential loop.

The loop operation consists of (1) a range formed by `lowerBound`, `upperBound`, and `step`,
(2) a set of loop-carried values which are initialized by `initValues` and updated by each iteration of the loop, and
(3) a region which represents the loop body.

The iteration space is defined by the interval \(\([lowerBound, upperBound)\)\) with each value
separated by `step`.

$$
\[range(L_b, U_b, S) = \{ L_b + i \cdot S \mid i \in \mathbb{Z}, L_b + i \cdot S < U_b \}\]
$$

`lowerBound`, `upperBound`, and `step` must be of the same type.
`lowerBound` and `upperBound` specify a half-open (or exclusive) range: the range
includes the `lowerBound` but does not include the `upperBound`.
`step` must be positive but the bounds may be negative or zero.

The `lowerBound`, `upperBound`, and `step` operands are interpreted as signed integers.

The first iteration of the loop receives the induction variable initialized to the value of `lowerBound`
and the loop-carried values initialized to the values of `initValues`.

The loop body is executed for each value in the range, receiving an integer induction variable
incremented by `step` on each iteration and the loop-carried values which correspond to the
loop-carried values yielded by the previous loop iteration.

The loop terminates when the induction variable is greater than or equal to
`upperBound`. By default, signed comparison is used between the
upperBound and the induction variable. To use unsigned comparison instead,
specify the optional `unsigned` unit attribute.

The body of the loop must be terminated by a [cuda_tile.continue](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/#op-cuda-tile-continue) that yields
the next iteration’s value for each loop carried variable.

The for operation produces one return value for each loop carried variable. The type of the \(\(i\)\)-th return
value is that of the \(\(i\)\)-th loop carried variable and its value is the final value of the
\(\(i\)\)-th loop carried variable.

> **Warning**
>
> - Loop carried variables can not be a [tensor_view](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/types.html#type-tensor-view) or view type.
> - `for` operations cannot terminate early and must end in a [cuda_tile.continue](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/#op-cuda-tile-continue).
