---
title: "Description"
section: ""
source: "https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/operations.html#id201"
---

#### [Description](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections#id201)[](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/#id201 "Permalink to this headline")

The `divf` operation computes the element-wise division of two input tiles
with floating-point element types.

The `approx` rounding mode implements a fast approximation of divide,
computed as a multiplication by reciprocal. For `|rhs|` in normalized range
`[2^(-126), 2^(126)]` the maximum ULP (Unit in the Last Place) error is `2`.
For `2^(126) < |rhs| < 2^(128)`, if `lhs` is infinity the operation returns `NaN`,
otherwise `0`.

The `full` rounding mode implements a relatively fast, full-range
approximation that scales operands to achieve better accuracy, but is not fully
IEEE 754 compliant. The maximum ulp error is 2 across the full range of inputs.

$$
\[\text{div(lhs, rhs)}_i = \text{lhs}_i / \text{rhs}_i\]
$$

Element-wise floating-point arithmetic operations are performed by the target architecture’s native floating-point instructions. If the `rounding` modifier is specified, the particular rounding mode will be applied to each element of the result. See [Floating-Point Arithmetic](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/#sub-section-floating-point-arithmetic) for more details.

The `rounding` attribute specifies the rounding mode to use for the operation.

- `nearest_even` - Round to nearest (ties to even).
- `zero` - Round towards zero (truncate).
- `negative_inf` - Round towards negative infinity.
- `positive_inf` - Round towards positive infinity.
- `approx` - Approximate rounding mode.
- `full` - Full precision rounding mode.
- `nearest_int_to_zero` - Round towards zero to the nearest integer.

The below table shows the supported modifiers and rounding modes for each data type. Entries with ‘*’ are emulated in f32.

| Modifier | Float32 | Float64 | BFloat16 | Float16 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `flush_to_zero` | yes | no | no | no |
| `approx` | yes | no | no | no |
| `full` | yes | no | no | no |
| `rounding<nearest_even>` | yes | yes | yes* | yes* |
| `rounding<zero>` | yes | yes | yes* | yes* |
| `rounding<negative_inf>` | yes | yes | yes* | yes* |
| `rounding<positive_inf>` | yes | yes | yes* | yes* |
