---
title: "Description"
section: ""
source: "https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/operations.html#id310"
---

#### [Description](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections#id310)[](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/#id310 "Permalink to this headline")

The `divi` operation computes the element-wise division of two tile values with integer element type.

The default rounding is towards zero. The rounding mode can be set to *positive_inf* (“ceiling division”),
or *negative_inf* (“floor division”), other values are illegal.

The use of the rounding flag *negative_inf* with *unsigned* is not a valid combination.

If the *unsigned* flag is provided, the operands are treated as unsigned integers, otherwise they are
treated as signed integers.

The behavior is undefined if the right hand side is zero. A signed division overflow (minimum value
divided by -1) is undefined behavior.

$$
\[\text{div(lhs, rhs)}_i = \text{lhs}_i / \text{rhs}_i\]
$$

Element-wise integer arithmetic operations are performed by the target architecture’s native integer instructions. The default semantics are wrap-around semantics on overflow or underflow. See [Integer Arithmetic](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/#sub-section-integer-arithmetic) for more details.

The `signedness` attribute specifies the signedness of operand(s).

- `unsigned` - Treat the operands as unsigned integers.
- `signed` - Treat the operands as signed integers.

The `rounding` attribute specifies the rounding mode to use for the operation.

- `nearest_even` - Round to nearest (ties to even).
- `zero` - Round towards zero (truncate).
- `negative_inf` - Round towards negative infinity.
- `positive_inf` - Round towards positive infinity.
- `approx` - Approximate rounding mode.
- `full` - Full precision rounding mode.
- `nearest_int_to_zero` - Round towards zero to the nearest integer.
