---
title: "Description"
section: ""
source: "https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/operations.html#id351"
---

#### [Description](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections#id351)[](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/#id351 "Permalink to this headline")

The `shli` operation computes the element-wise left shift of the `lhs` integer operand by
the `rhs` operand. The lower-order bits on the right are filled with zeros.

$$
\[\text{shli}(x, y)_i = x_i \ll y_i\]
$$

The `rhs` operand is interpreted as an unsigned integer.

Element-wise integer arithmetic operations are performed by the target architecture’s native integer instructions. The default semantics are wrap-around semantics on overflow or underflow. See [Integer Arithmetic](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/tile-ir/latest/sections/#sub-section-integer-arithmetic) for more details.

The `overflow` attribute is used to instruct the compiler on how to reason about the overflow behavior of the specific operation.

These attributes serve as assumptions that the compiler may use to reason about the operation. It is the responsibility of the code generator to ensure that the operation
respects these assumptions dynamically during execution.

- `none` - The compiler makes no assumptions regarding overflow behavior.
- `no_signed_wrap` - The compiler assumes that overflow (wrap-around) will not occur when interpreting the operands signed integers.
- `no_unsigned_wrap` - The compiler assumes that overflow (wrap-around) will not occur when interpreting the operands unsigned integers.
- `no_wrap` - The compiler assumes that overflow (wrap-around) will not occur when interpreting the operands as signed or unsigned integers.

If an overflow occurs at runtime despite the value of overflow stating otherwise, the behavior is undefined.
