---
title: "CUTLASS C++"
section: ""
source: "https://docs.nvidia.com/cutlass/latest/CHANGELOG.html#id29"
---

### [CUTLASS C++](https://docs.nvidia.com/cutlass/latest#id29)[](https://docs.nvidia.com/cutlass/latest/#id29 "Permalink to this headline")

- Further enhance Blackwell SM100 Attention kernels in [example 77](https://github.com/NVIDIA/cutlass/tree/main/examples/77_blackwell_fmha/).
  - Add variable sequence length support for FMHA Backward kernel.
  - Add varlen test support to Backward runner.
  - Codes support empty batch sequences.
- Replace `subbyte_iterator` with `cute::recast_ptr` when constructing logical iterators/arrays.
- CuTe changes:
  - Rewrite ArithTuple and ScaledBasis for robustness and clarity.
  - Remove buggy and kludgy `get_layoutA|B|C_MN` and friends from Atoms/TiledX.
  - Factor out `print_latex` and friends and rewrite.
  - Factor out `print_svg` and friends and rewrite.
- Support Blackwell SM100 SIMT packed fp32x2 kernels.
- Support residual add for implicit gemm kernels.
- Various fixes for CUTLASS C++ Python interface’s EVT tracer:
  - Add verifier for sm90 to report the invalid input.
  - When adding an edge to the graph, if the edge already exists, add an identity compute node to avoid having multiple parallel edges.
  - Register operations of tanh, sigmoid, exp, gelu to the python ast frontend.
  - Replace the NotImplemented Error by packing all nodes into a single topological visitor node as a fallback.
- Fix profiler bugs in exhaustive perf search.
  - Fix incorrect cluster shape output issue when doing exhaustive search.
  - Fix a bug in profiler grouped GEMM for setting tile scheduler swizzles, cluster shapes, and raster orders.
- Fix some profiler issues.
  - Complete the reference for Blackwell blockwise gemm kernels.
  - Fix incorrect regex logic for L1 test.
- Various improvements and fixes from the community and CUTLASS team. Thanks to everyone who submitted PRs!
- Optimal code generation with CUDA toolkit versions 12.9.
