---
title: "Cache in CuTe DSL"
section: ""
source: "https://docs.nvidia.com/cutlass/latest/media/docs/pythonDSL/cute_dsl_general/dsl_jit_caching.html#cache-in-dsl"
---

## [Cache in CuTe DSL](https://docs.nvidia.com/cutlass/latest/media/docs/pythonDSL/cute_dsl_general#cache-in-dsl)[](https://docs.nvidia.com/cutlass/latest/media/docs/pythonDSL/cute_dsl_general/#cache-in-dsl "Permalink to this headline")

By default, cache in CuTe DSL is implicitly enabled to avoid recompilation when kernels are called repeatedly without changes.

The cache is implemented as a map storing compiled JIT Executor instances within CuTe DSL.

The cache key combines hashes of:

- MLIR bytecode of the MLIR program generated by CuTe DSL
- All CuTe DSL Python source files
- All CuTe DSL shared libraries
- All CuTe DSL environment variables

The cache value is a compiled JIT Executor instance.

On a cache hit, compilation is skipped and the cached JIT Executor instance is reused.

On a cache miss, the kernel is compiled and the new JIT Executor instance is stored in the cache.

Here is an example demonstrating automatic caching of the `add` kernel:

```python
# Global variable
a = 1

@cute.jit
def add(b):
   return a + b

# Cache is empty at beginning

# First call: cache miss triggers compilation
result = add(2) # result = 3
# Cache now has one instance

# Second call: cache hit reuses cached JIT Executor
result = add(2) # result = 3

a = 2
# Third call: cache miss due to changed IR code triggers recompilation
result = add(2) # result = 4
# Cache now has two instances
```

The cache can be serialized to files for subsequent runs.
After serialization, compiled MLIR bytecode is stored in file.
The cache directory is `/tmp/{current_user}/cutlass_python_cache`.
During compilation, the cache loads the corresponding kernel from file (if it exists) into memory as needed, and after compilation, it saves any newly compiled executables back to file.

Note that for efficiency, the default cache directory is located in a temporary folder. However, this location is not persistent, it may be cleared by the system (for example, during a reboot or disk space cleanup).
If you wish to preserve the cache across sessions, set the `CUTE_DSL_CACHE_DIR` environment variable to point to a persistent directory.

The following environment variables control file caching:

```bash
# Disable file caching while keeping in-memory cache available, defaults to False.
export CUTE_DSL_DISABLE_FILE_CACHING=True

# Cache directory, defaults to /tmp/{current_user}/cutlass_python_cache.
export CUTE_DSL_CACHE_DIR=/home/user/local_cutlass_python_cache/dense_gemm_cache/
```
