---
title: "CuTe"
section: ""
source: "https://docs.nvidia.com/cutlass/latest/overview.html#cute"
---

# [CuTe](https://docs.nvidia.com/cutlass/latest#cute)[](https://docs.nvidia.com/cutlass/latest/#cute "Permalink to this headline")

CUTLASS 3.0 introduced a new core library, CuTe, to describe and manipulate tensors of threads and data.
CuTe is a collection of C++ CUDA template abstractions for
defining and operating on hierarchically multidimensional layouts of threads and data.
CuTe provides `Layout` and `Tensor` objects that compactly package the type,
shape, memory space, and layout of data, while performing the complicated indexing for the user.
This lets programmers focus on the logical descriptions of their algorithms while
CuTe does the mechanical bookkeeping for them. With these tools, we can quickly design,
implement, and modify all dense linear algebra operations.

The core abstractions of CuTe are hierarchically multidimensional layouts
which can be composed with data arrays to represent tensors.
The representation of layouts is powerful enough to represent nearly
everything we need to implement efficient dense linear algebra.
Layouts can also be combined and manipulated via functional composition, on which we build a large set of common operations such as tiling and partitioning.

CUTLASS 3.0 and beyond adopts CuTe throughout the GEMM hierarchy in its templates.
This greatly simplifies the design and improves code composability and readability.
More documentation specific to CuTe can be found in its
[dedicated documentation directory](https://docs.nvidia.com/cutlass/latest/media/docs/cpp/cute/00_quickstart.html).
