---
title: "4.11.2. Using the Tensor Memory Accelerator (TMA)"
section: "4.11.2"
source: "https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/04-special-topics/async-copies.html#using-the-tensor-memory-accelerator-tma"
---

## [4.11.2. Using the Tensor Memory Accelerator (TMA)](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/04-special-topics#using-the-tensor-memory-accelerator-tma)[](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/04-special-topics/#using-the-tensor-memory-accelerator-tma "Permalink to this headline")

Many applications need to move large amounts of data to and from global memory. Often, the data is laid out in global memory as a multi-dimensional array with non-sequential data access patterns. To reduce global memory accesses, sub-tiles of such arrays are copied to shared memory before use in computations. The loading and storing involves address-calculations that can be error-prone and repetitive. To offload these computations, compute capability 9.0 (Hopper) and later (see [PTX documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/parallel-thread-execution/#data-movement-and-conversion-instructions-cp-async-bulk)) have a _tensor memory accelerator_ (TMA). The primary goal of the TMA is to provide an efficient data transfer mechanism from global memory to shared memory for multi-dimensional arrays.

**Naming**. Tensor memory accelerator (TMA) is a broad term used to refer to the features described in this section. For the purpose of forward-compatibility and to reduce discrepancies with the PTX ISA, the text in this section refers to TMA operations as either _bulk-asynchronous copies_ or _bulk-tensor asynchronous copies_, depending on the specific type of copy used. The term “bulk” is used to contrast these operations with the asynchronous memory operations described in the previous section.

**Dimensions**. TMA supports copying both one-dimensional and multi-dimensional arrays (up to 5-dimensional). The programming model for bulk-asynchronous copies of one-dimensional contiguous arrays is different from the programming model for bulk-tensor asynchronous copies of multi-dimensional arrays. To perform a bulk-tensor asynchronous copy of a multi-dimensional array, the hardware requires a [tensor map](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-driver-api/structCUtensorMap.html#structCUtensorMap). This object describes the layout of the multi-dimensional array in global and shared memory. A tensor map is typically created on the host using the [cuTensorMapEncode API](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-driver-api/group__CUDA__TENSOR__MEMORY.html#group__CUDA__TENSOR__MEMORY) and then transferred from host to device as a `const` kernel parameter annotated with `__grid_constant__` (see [__grid_constant__ Parameters](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/05-appendices/cpp-language-extensions.html#grid-constant)). The tensor map is transferred from host to device as a `const` kernel parameter annotated with `__grid_constant__`, and can be used on the device to copy a tile of data between shared and global memory. In contrast, performing a bulk-asynchronous copy of a contiguous one-dimensional array does not require a tensor map: it can be performed on-device with a pointer and size parameter.

**Source and destination**. The source and destination addresses of TMA operations can be in shared or global memory. The operations can read data from global to shared memory, write data from shared to global memory, and also copy from shared memory to [distributed shared memory](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/02-basics/writing-cuda-kernels.html#writing-cuda-kernels-distributed-shared-memory) of another block in the same cluster. In addition, when in a cluster, a bulk-asynchronous tensor operation can be specified as being _multicast_. In this case, data can be transferred from global memory to the shared memory of multiple blocks within the cluster. The multicast feature is optimized for target architecture `sm_90a` and may have [significantly reduced performance](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/parallel-thread-execution/index.html#data-movement-and-conversion-instructions-cp-async-bulk-tensor) on other targets. Hence, it is advised to be used with [compute architecture](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-compiler-driver-nvcc/index.html#gpu-feature-list) `sm_90a`.

**Asynchronicity**. Data transfers using TMA are [asynchronous](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/03-advanced/advanced-kernel-programming.html#advanced-kernels-hardware-implementation-asynchronous-execution-features) and are modeled as async proxy operations (see [Async Thread and Async Proxy](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/03-advanced/advanced-kernel-programming.html#advanced-kernels-hardware-implementation-asynchronous-execution-features-async-thread-proxy)). This allows the initiating thread to continue computing while the hardware asynchronously copies the data. _Whether the data transfer occurs asynchronously in practice is up to the hardware implementation and may change in the future_. There are several [completion mechanisms](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/parallel-thread-execution/index.html#data-movement-and-conversion-instructions-asynchronous-copy-completion-mechanisms) that bulk-asynchronous operations can use to signal that they have completed. When the operation reads from global to shared memory, any thread in the block can wait for the data to be readable in shared memory by waiting on a [shared memory barrier](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/03-advanced/advanced-kernel-programming.html#advanced-kernels-advanced-sync-primitives-barriers). When the bulk-asynchronous operation writes data from shared memory to global or distributed shared memory, only the initiating thread can wait for the operation to have completed. This is accomplished using a _bulk async-group_ based completion mechanism. A table describing the completion mechanisms can be found below and in the [PTX ISA](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/parallel-thread-execution/index.html#data-movement-and-conversion-instructions-cp-async-bulk).

| Source | Destination | Completion Mechanism |
| --- | --- | --- |
| global | global |  |
| shared::cta | global | bulk async-group |
| global | shared::cta | shared memory barrier |
| global | shared::cluster | shared memory barrier (multicast) |
| shared::cta | shared::cluster | shared memory barrier |
| shared::cta | shared::cta |  |
