---
title: "4.18.1.1. Overview"
section: "4.18.1.1"
source: "https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/04-special-topics/dynamic-parallelism.html#overview"
---

### [4.18.1.1. Overview](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/04-special-topics#overview)[](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/04-special-topics/#overview "Permalink to this headline")

CUDA dynamic parallelism - often abbreviated CDP - is a feature of the CUDA programming model that enables code running on the GPU to create new GPU work. That is, new work can be added to the GPU in the form of additional kernel launches from device code already running on the GPU. This feature can reduce the need to transfer execution control and data between host and device, as launch configuration decisions can be made at runtime by threads executing on the device.

Data-dependent parallel work can be generated by a kernel at run-time. Before CDP was added to CUDA, some algorithms and programming patterns required modifications to eliminate recursion, irregular loop structure, or other constructs that do not fit a flat, single-level of parallelism. These program structures may be expressed more naturally using CUDA dynamic parallelism.

> **Note**
>
> This section documents the updated version of CUDA Dynamic Parallelism, sometimes called CDP2, which is the default in CUDA 12.0 and later. CDP2 is the only version of CUDA dynamic parallelism available on devices of CC 9.0 and higher. Developers can still opt in to the legacy CUDA Dynamic Parallelism, CDP1, for devices of CC lower than 9.0 with the compiler argument *-DCUDA_FORCE_CDP1_IF_SUPPORTED*. CDP1 documentation can be found in [Legacy versions of the CUDA Programming Guide](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit-archive). CDP1 is slated for removal from a future version of CUDA.
