---
title: "5.3.6.2. printf()"
section: "5.3.6.2"
source: "https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/05-appendices/cpp-language-support.html#printf"
---

### [5.3.6.2. printf()](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/05-appendices#printf)[](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/05-appendices/#printf "Permalink to this headline")

```cuda
int printf(const char* format[, arg, ...]);
```

The function prints formatted output from a kernel to a host-side output stream.

The in-kernel `printf()` function behaves similarly to the standard C library `printf()` function. Users should refer to their host system’s manual pages for complete descriptions of `printf()` behavior. Essentially, the string passed in as `format` is output to a stream on the host.

The `printf()` command is executed like any other device-side function: per thread and in the context of the calling thread. In a multi-threaded kernel, a straightforward call to `printf()` will be executed by every thread using the data specified by that thread. Consequently, multiple versions of the output string will appear at the host stream, each corresponding to a thread that encountered the `printf()`.

Unlike the C standard `printf()`, which returns the number of characters printed, CUDA’s `printf()` returns the number of arguments parsed. If no arguments follow the format string, 0 is returned. If the format string is `NULL`, `-1` is returned. If an internal error occurs, -2 is returned.

Internally, `printf()` uses a shared data structure, so it is possible that calling `printf()` may alter the execution order of threads. In particular, a thread that calls `printf()` might take a longer execution path than a thread that does not call `printf()`, and the length of that path depends on the parameters of `printf()`. However, note that CUDA makes no guarantees about the order of thread execution except at explicit `__syncthreads()` barriers. Therefore, it is impossible to tell whether the order of execution has been modified by `printf()` or by other scheduling behaviors in the hardware.

---

**Format Specifiers**

As for standard `printf()`, format specifiers take the form: `%[flags][width][.precision][size]type`

The following fields are supported. See the widely available documentation for a complete description of all behaviors.

- Flags: `#`, `' '`, `0`, `+`, `-`
- Width: `*`, `0-9`
- Precision: `0-9`
- Size: `h`, `l`, `ll`
- Type: `%cdiouxXpeEfgGaAs`

---

**Limitations**

The final formatting of the `printf()` output takes place on the host system. This means that the format string must be understood by the compiler and C library of the host system. While every effort has been made to ensure that the format specifiers supported by CUDA’s `printf()` function are a universal subset of those supported by the most common host compilers, the exact behavior will be dependent on the host operating system.

`printf()` accepts all valid combinations of flags and types. This is because it cannot determine what will and will not be valid on the host system where the final output is formatted. Consequently, output may be undefined if the program emits a format string containing invalid combinations.

The `printf()` function can accept up to 32 arguments, in addition to the format string. Any additional arguments will be ignored, and the format specifier will be output as is.

Due to the different sizes of the `long` type on Windows platforms (32-bit) and Linux platforms (64-bit), a kernel compiled on a Linux machine and then run on a Windows machine will produce corrupted output for all format strings that include `%ld`. To ensure safety, it is recommended that the compilation and execution platforms match.

---

**Host-Side Buffer**

The output buffer for `printf()` is set to a fixed size before kernel launch. The buffer is circular, so if more output is produced during kernel execution than can fit in the buffer, older output is overwritten. The buffer is flushed only when one of the following actions is performed:

- Kernel launch via `<<< >>>` or `cuLaunchKernel()`: at the start of the launch, and if the `CUDA_LAUNCH_BLOCKING` environment variable is set to 1, at the end of the launch as well,
- Synchronization via `cudaDeviceSynchronize()`, `cuCtxSynchronize()`, `cudaStreamSynchronize()`, `cuStreamSynchronize()`, `cudaEventSynchronize()`, or `cuEventSynchronize()`,
- Memory copies via any blocking version of `cudaMemcpy*()` or `cuMemcpy*()`,
- Module loading/unloading via `cuModuleLoad()` or `cuModuleUnload()`,
- Context destruction via `cudaDeviceReset()` or `cuCtxDestroy()`.
- Prior to executing a stream callback added by `cudaLaunchHostFunc()` or `cuLaunchHostFunc()`.

Note that the buffer is not automatically flushed when the program exits.

The following API functions set and retrieve the size of the buffer used to transfer `printf()` arguments and internal metadata to the host. The default size is one megabyte.

- `cudaDeviceGetLimit(size_t* size,cudaLimitPrintfFifoSize)`
- `cudaDeviceSetLimit(cudaLimitPrintfFifoSize, size_t size)`

---

**Examples**

The following code sample:

```cuda
#include <stdio.h>

__global__ void helloCUDA(float value) {
    printf("Hello thread %d, value=%f\n", threadIdx.x, value);
}

int main() {
    helloCUDA<<<1, 5>>>(1.2345f);
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();
    return 0;
}
```

will output:

```text
Hello thread 2, value=1.2345
Hello thread 1, value=1.2345
Hello thread 4, value=1.2345
Hello thread 0, value=1.2345
Hello thread 3, value=1.2345
```

Notice that each thread encounters the `printf()` command. Therefore, there are as many lines of output as there are threads in the grid.

See the example on [Compiler Explorer](https://cuda.godbolt.org/z/d4MPj7qG8).

---

The following code sample:

```cuda
#include <stdio.h>

__global__ void helloCUDA(float value) {
    if (threadIdx.x == 0)
        printf("Hello thread %d, value=%f\n", threadIdx.x, value);
}

int main() {
    helloCUDA<<<1, 5>>>(1.2345f);
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();
    return 0;
}
```

will output:

```text
Hello thread 0, value=1.2345
```

Clearly, the `if()` statement limits which threads call `printf()`, so only one line of output is seen.

See the example on [Compiler Explorer](https://cuda.godbolt.org/z/YqEss81sf).
